README.md, before:

## Application for movies search, based on Webpack 4 / Express / React + Redux-Saga / SSR
<img src="src/assets/img/build-stack.gif">

Live demo is available at [nk11dev-movies.herokuapp.com](https://nk11dev-movies.herokuapp.com/)

## List of contents

- [Description](#Description)
- [Technology stack](#Technology-stack)
- [NPM scripts](#NPM-scripts)
- [Environment variables](#Environment-variables)
- [Roadmap](#Roadmap)

## Description
Application based on custom webpack boilerplate with the latest dependency versions. Application uses real data API provided by The Movie Database (TMDb). This app shows data for Russian region, but you can specify the region you need. 

*Notation: if you want to clone this app and use it by yourself, you should register account at TMDb and use your own API key.* 

Application features: 
- 🎥 watch movies lists, filtered by categories: "Now playing", "Popular", "Top rated" and "Upcoming". Pagination is supported.
<img src="src/assets/img/screens/screen_1.png">

- 🎥 search movies by title
<img src="src/assets/img/screens/screen_2.png">

- 🎥 watch movie details:
    - original title, genres, production countries, duration
    - creators: director, writing, director of photography, original music composer, actors
    - movie rating based on TMDb users votes
    - tagline and overview
    - poster
    - YouTube trailer 
<img src="src/assets/img/screens/screen_3.png">

- 🎥 watch image gallery:
<img src="src/assets/img/screens/screen_4.png">

- 🎥 watch recommendations - list of similar movies
<img src="src/assets/img/screens/screen_5.png">
    
- 🎥 localization is supported: EN (English) and RU (Russian) languages are available. With locale changing also changes movie displayed data (in relation with selected language): title, tagline, description, poster, videos.
<img src="src/assets/img/screens/screen_6.png">
<img src="src/assets/img/screens/screen_7.png">

## Technology stack

- Build
    - 🏄 Babel 7
    - 🎁 Webpack 4
    - 🚀 Server Side Rendering / Client Side Rendering with Express
    - ⚡ Hot Module Replacement  (supports server-side and sagas)

- Main libraries and dependencies
  - ✔️ React 16.x (latest)
  - ✔️ Redux + Sagas
  - ✔️ React Router 4
  - ✔️ React i18next
  - 🍦️ Bootstrap 4 + Fontawesome 5

## NPM scripts
##### Installation
- `npm install`

Notation: for getting API to work you should create `.env` file at the root folder and put in `TMDB_API_KEY` variable with your TMDb API key as value.
Example of `.env` file you could find in `/configs/.env.defaults` file.
```yaml
TMDB_API_HOST=https://api.themoviedb.org/3
TMDB_API_KEY=put_your_api_key_here
PORT_CLIENT=8080
PORT_SERVER=8081
RENDERING=client
```


##### Development mode
- `npm run dev:client` (`npm run dev`) - launch client-side webpack-dev-server with HMR *(by default available on [localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080))*
- `npm run dev:server` - launch server-side nodemon for hosting `/dist/client/` folder *(by default available on [localhost:8081](http://localhost:8081))*

##### Production mode
- `npm run build` - build client and server for production
- `npm start` - launch builded express server for hosting `/dist/client/` folder 

##### Other
- `npm run lint` - run eslint with `./**` search pattern 
- `npm run lint:fix` - run eslint with `--fix` flag

## Environment variables

There is some environment variables with default values stored in `/configs/.env.defaults`

| Variable         | Default            | Description                                                      
| ---------------- | ------------------ |------------------ |
| `TMDB_API_HOST` | https://api.themoviedb.org/3 | TMDb v3 API host, used by internal module `ApiService.js` for fetching movies data |
| `TMDB_API_KEY` | none | Your TMDb API key, used by internal module `ApiService.js` for fetching movies data |
| `PORT_CLIENT` | `8080` | Port used by webpack-dev-server with client build |
| `PORT_SERVER` | `8081` | Port used by express for nodemon/production modes |
| `RENDERING` | `client` | Application rendering type. Available values: `client` or `server` |

## Roadmap
- ✅ live  demo on Heroku
- ✅ linting ("eslint:recommended", "eslint-plugin-react", "eslint-plugin-import", "eslint-config-airbnb-base")
- 🐾 bugfixes
- 🔲 qa: tests
- 🔲 ci-cd: github actions for CI/CD with Heroku
- 🔲 ci-cd: build flags for github repo
- 🔲 ci-cd: keep-alive cron for Heroku
- 🔲 tech: flow static type checking
- 🔲 tech: firebase authorization
- 💥 and most important thing: series of articles with how to code this application tutorial and how it works in details

Commit message:

Add TMDB_API_REGION env variable. Update READEME ("technology stack", "env" and "roadmap" descriptions).

README.md, after:

## Application for movies search, based on Webpack 4 / Express / React + Redux-Saga / SSR
<img src="src/assets/img/build-stack.gif">

Live demo is available at [nk11dev-movies.herokuapp.com](https://nk11dev-movies.herokuapp.com/)

## List of contents

- [Technology stack](#Technology-stack)
- [Description](#Description)
- [NPM scripts](#NPM-scripts)
- [Environment variables](#Environment-variables)
- [Roadmap](#Roadmap)

## Technology stack
- 🏄 Babel 7
- 🎁 Webpack 4
- 📐 ESLint 7 (based on "eslint-plugin-import", "eslint-plugin-react", "eslint-config-airbnb-base" + some customizations)
- 🚀 Server Side Rendering / Client Side Rendering with Express
- ⚡ Hot Module Replacement  (supports server-side and sagas)
- ✔️ React 16.x (latest), with Hooks
- ✔️ Redux + Sagas
- ✔️ React Router 4
- ✔️ React i18next for multi language support
- 🍦️ SASS, Bootstrap 4 + Fontawesome 5

## Description
Application based on custom webpack boilerplate with the latest dependency versions. Application uses real data API provided by The Movie Database (TMDb). This app shows data for Russian region, but you can specify the region you need. 

*Notation: if you want to clone this app and use it by yourself, you should register account at TMDb and use your own API key.* 

Application features: 
- 🎥 watch movies lists, filtered by categories: "Now playing", "Popular", "Top rated" and "Upcoming". Pagination is supported.
<img src="src/assets/img/screens/screen_1.png">

- 🎥 search movies by title
<img src="src/assets/img/screens/screen_2.png">

- 🎥 watch movie details:
    - original title, genres, production countries, duration
    - creators: director, writing, director of photography, original music composer, actors
    - movie rating based on TMDb users votes
    - tagline and overview
    - poster
    - YouTube trailer 
<img src="src/assets/img/screens/screen_3.png">

- 🎥 watch image gallery:
<img src="src/assets/img/screens/screen_4.png">

- 🎥 watch recommendations - list of similar movies
<img src="src/assets/img/screens/screen_5.png">
    
- 🎥 localization is supported: EN (English) and RU (Russian) languages are available. With locale changing also changes movie displayed data (in relation with selected language): title, tagline, description, poster, videos.
<img src="src/assets/img/screens/screen_6.png">
<img src="src/assets/img/screens/screen_7.png">

## NPM scripts
##### Installation
- `npm install`

Notation: for getting API to work you should create `.env` file at the root folder and put in `TMDB_API_KEY` variable with your TMDb API key as value.
Example of `.env` file you could find in `/configs/.env.defaults` file.
```yaml
TMDB_API_KEY=put_your_api_key_here
TMDB_API_HOST=https://api.themoviedb.org/3
TMDB_API_REGION=RU
PORT_CLIENT=8080
PORT_SERVER=8081
RENDERING=client
```


##### Development mode
- `npm run dev:client` (`npm run dev`) - launch client-side webpack-dev-server with HMR *(by default available on [localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080))*
- `npm run dev:server` - launch server-side nodemon for hosting `/dist/client/` folder *(by default available on [localhost:8081](http://localhost:8081))*

##### Production mode
- `npm run build` - build client and server for production
- `npm start` - launch builded express server for hosting `/dist/client/` folder 

##### Other
- `npm run lint` - run eslint with `./**` search pattern 
- `npm run lint:fix` - run eslint with `--fix` flag

## Environment variables

There is some environment variables with default values stored in `/configs/.env.defaults`

| Variable         | Default            | Description                                                      
| ---------------- | ------------------ |------------------ |
| `TMDB_API_KEY` | none | Your TMDb API key, used by internal module `ApiService.js` for fetching movies data |
| `TMDB_API_HOST` | https://api.themoviedb.org/3 | TMDb v3 API host, used by internal module `ApiService.js` for fetching movies data |
| `TMDB_API_REGION` | RU | TMDb API region paramater will act as a filter to search for and display matching release date information. This parameter is expected to be an [ISO-3166-1](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2) code.|
| `PORT_CLIENT` | `8080` | Port used by webpack-dev-server with client build |
| `PORT_SERVER` | `8081` | Port used by express for nodemon/production modes |
| `RENDERING` | `client` | Application rendering type. Available values: `client` or `server` |

## Roadmap
- 🔲 qa: tests
- 🔲 ci-cd: github actions for CI/CD with Heroku
- 🔲 ci-cd: build flags for github repo
- 🔲 ci-cd: keep-alive cron for Heroku
- 🔲 tech: flow static type checking
- 🔲 tech: firebase authorization
- 💥 and most important thing: series of articles with how to code this application tutorial and how it works in details
